README.md, before:

# jfu - Java Fast Utility

> A quick, fun little build tool for Java when you just can't be bothered with Maven/Gradle.

Vibe-coded in Rust for those times when you just want to `javac` some files but with *slightly* more intelligence. That's it. That's the tool.

## Why Does This Exist?

Sometimes you're working on a tiny Java project—maybe a university assignment, maybe a leetcode warm-up, maybe just messing around—and you think "I really don't want to set up a whole Maven project for this."

But you also don't want to manually run `javac` in the right order every single time.

So here we are. It's not meant to replace real build tools. It's not meant to scale. It's just meant to be _nice_ for small stuff.

## What It Does

- **Tracks dependencies** via simple comments at the top of your Java files
- **Detects implicit dependencies** - warns when you use classes without declaring them
- **Only recompiles what changed** (SHA-256 hashing, because why not)
- **Pretty output** with colors and emojis (we're not animals)
- **Friendly error messages** (Java errors are scary, we make them less scary)
- **Dead simple** to use

That's literally it.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Build it (you need Rust)
cargo build --release

# Or just run it
cargo run --release -- run YourFile.java
```

### Using It

Add a comment at the top of your Java file:

```java
/*
using "Helper.java"
using "Utils.java"
*/
public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Helper.doThing();
    }
}
```

Then:

```bash
jfu run Main.java
```

Done. It'll figure out the rest.

## Commands

- `jfu init` - Makes a config file (optional, but nice)
- `jfu build [file]` - Compiles stuff
- `jfu run [file]` - Compiles and runs stuff
- `jfu clean` - Deletes the `out/` folder
- `jfu tree [file]` - Shows your dependency tree (it's pretty)
  - Implicit dependencies are always shown in **magenta**

### Global Flags

- `--verbose` / `-v` - Show verbose output
- `--force` / `-f` - Force rebuild (ignore cache)
- `--auto-implicit` - Automatically include implicit dependencies in compilation

## Configuration (Optional)

Run `jfu init` to get a `jfu.toml`:

```toml
src_dir = "."                        # Where your .java files live
out_dir = "./out"                    # Where .class files go
entrypoint = "Main.java"             # Default file to run
jvm_opts = ["-Xmx256m"]              # JVM flags
auto_include_implicit_deps = false   # Auto-compile implicit dependencies
```

Now you can just type `jfu run` without specifying a file. Neat.

### Implicit Dependency Detection

`jfu` scans your code for references to public classes in the same directory that aren't declared in your header comments. When it finds them, you'll see warnings like:

```
⚠️ Helper.java references classes without declaring them in header:
   → Class 'HelperTest' is referenced but not declared in header
     💡 Add 'using "HelperTest.java"' to the header comment
```

**Two modes:**

1. **Warning mode (default)**: `auto_include_implicit_deps = false` or no flag
   - Shows warnings but doesn't automatically compile the missing dependencies
   - You should add them to your header comment

2. **Auto-include mode**: `auto_include_implicit_deps = true` or `--auto-implicit` flag
   - Automatically includes implicit dependencies in compilation
   - Useful for quick prototyping, but you should still fix your headers
   - CLI flag: `jfu build Main.java --auto-implicit`
   - Config option: Set `auto_include_implicit_deps = true` in `jfu.toml`

**Viewing implicit dependencies:**

The `jfu tree` command always shows implicit dependencies in **magenta** with an `(implicit)` label:

```
📦 Main.java
  └─ Runner.java
    └─ Helper.java
      └─  HelperTest.java (implicit)
  └─ Cool.java

ℹ️ Implicit dependencies shown in magenta
```

This helps catch missing dependencies early and keeps your code explicit.

## How It Works

1. Reads `/* using "..." */` comments from your files
2. Builds a dependency graph (DFS, topological sort, the works)
3. Hashes each file to see what changed
4. Only recompiles the changed ones
5. Runs `javac` and `java` for you

It caches everything in `jfu-cache.json` so the second build is instant. ⚡

## What It Doesn't Do

- Replace Maven/Gradle (please don't try)
- Handle complex multi-module projects
- Manage external dependencies (no JAR support yet)
- Scale to large codebases
- Make your code run faster (it just compiles faster)

## Error Messages

We made Java errors prettier because they're intimidating:

**Compilation errors** get formatted nicely with:
- 📄 File and line number highlighted
- 💬 Clear error message
- Color-coded context
- Helpful tips

**Runtime errors** (exceptions) show:
- 🔥 Exception type in bold
- 📍 Your code highlighted in cyan
- Stack trace formatted clearly

**Recursion errors** (StackOverflow) get special treatment:
- 🔄 Clear "infinite recursion" warning
- 💡 Common causes listed
- Shows where the recursion is happening

Because learning Java is hard enough without cryptic errors.

## Vibe Check

This is a weekend project that got out of hand. It's not production-ready. It's not enterprise-grade. It's just a fun little tool that makes compiling small Java projects less annoying.

If it works for you, awesome! If you want more features, fork it or just use a real build tool. No pressure.

## License

MIT - Do whatever you want with it.

## Thanks

- Cargo (Rust's build tool) for the inspiration
- Everyone who's had to run `javac *.java` manually
- Coffee ☕

---

**Made for the vibes, not for production.**

Commit message:

Refine CLI output and detect public types
Add a 'release-fast' profile and tidy console messages. Extend implicit
dependency detection from public classes to all public types (classes,
interfaces, enums, records, abstract classes) and update the regex and
warning text. Remove a noisy config load log and simplify per-file
compile/run prints.

README.md, after:

# jfu - Java Fast Utility

> A quick, fun little build tool for Java when you just can't be bothered with Maven/Gradle.

Vibe-coded in Rust for those times when you just want to `javac` some files but with *slightly* more intelligence. That's it. That's the tool.

## Why Does This Exist?

Sometimes you're working on a tiny Java project—maybe a university assignment, maybe a leetcode warm-up, maybe just messing around—and you think "I really don't want to set up a whole Maven project for this."

But you also don't want to manually run `javac` in the right order every single time.

So here we are. It's not meant to replace real build tools. It's not meant to scale. It's just meant to be _nice_ for small stuff.

## What It Does

- **Tracks dependencies** via simple comments at the top of your Java files
- **Detects implicit dependencies** - warns when you use public types (classes, interfaces, enums, records, abstract classes) without declaring them
- **Only recompiles what changed** (SHA-256 hashing, because why not)
- **Pretty output** with colors and emojis (we're not animals)
- **Friendly error messages** (Java errors are scary, we make them less scary)
- **Dead simple** to use

That's literally it.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Build it (you need Rust)
cargo build --release

# Or just run it
cargo run --release -- run YourFile.java
```

### Using It

Add a comment at the top of your Java file:

```java
/*
using "Helper.java"
using "Utils.java"
*/
public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Helper.doThing();
    }
}
```

Then:

```bash
jfu run Main.java
```

Done. It'll figure out the rest.

## Commands

- `jfu init` - Makes a config file (optional, but nice)
- `jfu build [file]` - Compiles stuff
- `jfu run [file]` - Compiles and runs stuff
- `jfu clean` - Deletes the `out/` folder
- `jfu tree [file]` - Shows your dependency tree (it's pretty)
  - Implicit dependencies are always shown in **magenta**

### Global Flags

- `--verbose` / `-v` - Show verbose output
- `--force` / `-f` - Force rebuild (ignore cache)
- `--auto-implicit` - Automatically include implicit dependencies in compilation

## Configuration (Optional)

Run `jfu init` to get a `jfu.toml`:

```toml
src_dir = "."                        # Where your .java files live
out_dir = "./out"                    # Where .class files go
entrypoint = "Main.java"             # Default file to run
jvm_opts = ["-Xmx256m"]              # JVM flags
auto_include_implicit_deps = false   # Auto-compile implicit dependencies
```

Now you can just type `jfu run` without specifying a file. Neat.

### Implicit Dependency Detection

`jfu` scans your code for references to public types (classes, interfaces, enums, records, abstract classes) in the same directory that aren't declared in your header comments. When it finds them, you'll see warnings like:

```
⚠️ Helper.java references classes without declaring them in header:
   → Class 'HelperTest' is referenced but not declared in header
     💡 Add 'using "HelperTest.java"' to the header comment
```

**Two modes:**

1. **Warning mode (default)**: `auto_include_implicit_deps = false` or no flag
   - Shows warnings but doesn't automatically compile the missing dependencies
   - You should add them to your header comment

2. **Auto-include mode**: `auto_include_implicit_deps = true` or `--auto-implicit` flag
   - Automatically includes implicit dependencies in compilation
   - Useful for quick prototyping, but you should still fix your headers
   - CLI flag: `jfu build Main.java --auto-implicit`
   - Config option: Set `auto_include_implicit_deps = true` in `jfu.toml`

**Viewing implicit dependencies:**

The `jfu tree` command always shows implicit dependencies in **magenta** with an `(implicit)` label:

```
📦 Main.java
  └─ Runner.java
    └─ Helper.java
      └─  HelperTest.java (implicit)
  └─ Cool.java

ℹ️ Implicit dependencies shown in magenta
```

This helps catch missing dependencies early and keeps your code explicit.

## How It Works

1. Reads `/* using "..." */` comments from your files
2. Builds a dependency graph (DFS, topological sort, the works)
3. Hashes each file to see what changed
4. Only recompiles the changed ones
5. Runs `javac` and `java` for you

It caches everything in `jfu-cache.json` so the second build is instant. ⚡

## What It Doesn't Do

- Replace Maven/Gradle (please don't try)
- Handle complex multi-module projects
- Manage external dependencies (no JAR support yet)
- Scale to large codebases
- Make your code run faster (it just compiles faster)

## Error Messages

We made Java errors prettier because they're intimidating:

**Compilation errors** get formatted nicely with:
- 📄 File and line number highlighted
- 💬 Clear error message
- Color-coded context
- Helpful tips

**Runtime errors** (exceptions) show:
- 🔥 Exception type in bold
- 📍 Your code highlighted in cyan
- Stack trace formatted clearly

**Recursion errors** (StackOverflow) get special treatment:
- 🔄 Clear "infinite recursion" warning
- 💡 Common causes listed
- Shows where the recursion is happening

Because learning Java is hard enough without cryptic errors.

## Vibe Check

This is a weekend project that got out of hand. It's not production-ready. It's not enterprise-grade. It's just a fun little tool that makes compiling small Java projects less annoying.

If it works for you, awesome! If you want more features, fork it or just use a real build tool. No pressure.

## License

MIT - Do whatever you want with it.

## Thanks

- Cargo (Rust's build tool) for the inspiration
- Everyone who's had to run `javac *.java` manually
- Coffee ☕

---

**Made for the vibes, not for production.**
